# Linguistic dataset
We extended our approach to the linguistic dataset. The biologists are not alone to use the concept of the evolutionary tree of Darwin by representing the histories of descent with modification. In fact, there are many studies that used the trees to study linguistic evolutionary by connecting the concepts of phylogeny and linguistic (Goldstein et al. 2020,Christiansen et al. 2008,Schleicher et al. 1873). More recently, this curious connection was presented by Atkinson and Gray (Atkinson et al. 2005); they realized conceptual parallels between biological and linguistic evolution such as Horizontal gene transfer by borrowing and plant hybrids by language Creoles. We focused exclusively on the North and West Germanic groups. Among the 1302 word trees download and preprocessing from [T-Rex](http://www.trex.uqam.ca/bioling_interactive/), data are also available from the GitHub repository in [GitHub repo](https://github.com/TahiriNadia/CKMeansTreeClustering).

Note, there are cases where Indo-European languages have more than one hypothesis of evolution. If this language belongs to the 12 languages studied (i.e North and West Germanic) then we have indicated on the tree of evolution the different hypotheses; otherwise, we have masked these assumptions. We selected only the trees containing at least four languages of the North and West Germanic groups (i.e. Icelandic, Faroese, Swedish, Danish and Riksmål for North Germanic and Dutch, Flemish, Germanic ST, Frisian, PennDutch, Sranan and English for West Germanic), i.e. 248 trees in this step. We keep all the possibilities of evolutionary trees concerning the languages of interest (i.e Sranan and Frisian). Then, we obtained 264 trees with 12 leaves.
